# 1.1 Social Engineering
## Phishing
Phishing is social engineering with a touch of spoofing. You know what this is.  This is usually done over email, text, etc. Check the URL to be legitimate.

- **Typosatting** - a type of URL hijacking, using similar looking URL's to trick someone to click on a link that looks familiar but is misspelled, etc.
- **Prepending** - used in data URL phishing to add a little bite onto the front of a URL.
- **Pretexting** - lying to get info, the attacker is a character in a situation they create.
* **Pharming** - redirection a legit website to a bogus site by DNS poisoning or taking control of the website's DNS server.
* **Vishing** - voice phishing is phishing over the phone.
* **Smishing** - SMS phishing over text message.
* **Reconnaissance** - gathering information to use against the victim in a phishing attack. Used to gain familiarity or trust with a victim.
* **Spear phishing** - using reconnaissance and phishing together.
* **Whaling** - spear phishing for high-value targets like CEO's etc. hints the term "Whaling".


## Impersonation
- **Impersonation** - attackers pretending to be someone to gain an image of trust, authority, etc.
- **Eliciting information** - extracting information from the victim.
- **Identity fraud** - attackers using your identity to commit credit card fraud, bank, or loan fraud because you gave them it in a phishing attack.

## Dumpster Diving
- **Dumpster Diving** - digging through the trash to try and find sensitive information

Legality depends on state and country. In the US it is legal unless there are local restrictions.

Protect your trash
- Secure/lock up your trash
- Shred or burn your garbage.

## Shoulder Surfing
**Shoudler Surfing** - This is looking over someones shoulder to view sensitve or private information on their computer. This can also be done with binoculars or a telescope. 

Preventing shoulder surfing
- Be aware of your surroundings.
- Use privacy filters.
- Keeping your monitor turned away from hallways and windows.

## Hoaxes 
**Hoax** - a threat that appears real but is not. Often an email or social media post, tweet, etc. Usually used to phish.

Use spam filters to your advantage.

## Watering hole attacks
**Watering hole attack** - taking advatnage of where users you want to attack visit (their watering hole). This could be a coffee shop, restaurant website etc. The goal is then to infect one of these 3rd party sites and attack the victims through this watering hole attack.

Preventative mearsures
- Defense-in-depth
	- Layered defense
- Firewalls and IPS
	- Stop the network traffic before things get bad
- Anti-virus

## Spam
Unsolicated messages
- **SPIM** - spam over instant messaging
- Content - advertising, phishing attempts
- **Mail gateway** - can help filter out spam
- Allowed list - list of allowed email users and senders
- SMTP standards checking - block anything that doesn't follow RFC standards.
- **rDNS** - you can us reverse DNS to lookup sender's domain to check for legitamacy.
- **Tarpitting** - Intentionally slow down the server conversation.
- **Recipient filtering** - block all emial not addresses to a valid recipent emial address.

## Influencing campaigns
Influencing campaigns are used to sway public opinion on political and social issues. 
- Nation-state actors - use influencing campaigns to divide, distract, and persuade public opinion. 
- Enabled through social media - attackers can use multiple accounts, sharing, liking and more to amplify their efforts.
- Fake users - using fake users (like Russian bots) to create content to amplify and create influence.
- Military strategy - using these campaigns to influence the public opinion in attempt to control foriegn governments through influence. This is what we call **Cyberwarfare**. Attackers can have massive control on domesitc and foreign policy and opinion.

## Other Social Engineering Attacks
- **Tailgating** - following someone in through the door.
	- This can also be achieved by having the door held open for you by means of acting like you belong their, bringing in food like doughnuts, etc.
	- Preventing tailgating - use policy like one scan one person, access control vestibule / airlocks, or even just asking who the person is.
- **Invoice scam** - using spear phishing to trick the invoice payers into spoofing the victim into paying the attacker or giving them your credentials.
- **Credential harvesting** - attackers trying to harvest credentials from your computer via saved creds in browsers and other applications.

## Principles of Social Engineering
Mulitple people can be used in these tpes of attacks. These are constantly being innovated and new methods are being created.
Techniques -
- **Authority** - trick the victim into thinking they are in charge or have some type of authority over them.
- **Intimidation** - make the victim think they will be punished or bad things will happen if they don't do what they say.
- **Consensus / Social proof** - convincing the attacker that co-operating with them it's normal to work with them. "Your co-worker Jill did this for me last week".
- **Scarcity** - oh no! we have to do this before time expires or we can't do it anymore, give me your credit card infromation!
- **Urgency** - much like scarcity, hurry up I have to get this done! 
- **Familiarity** - trying to become familiar with the victim to encourage trust to be exploited with the victim. Attackers can use OSNIT information to gain familiarity with you.
- **Trust** - gaining trust from the victim, "You can trust me I'm from IT".
