# Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks

## Privilege escalation
Gaining higher-level access to a system
- Exploit a vulnerability
- Might be a bug or design flaw

- Horizontal privilege escalation
	- User A can access user B folders

- Mitigating priviledge escalation
	- Patch quickly
	- Update anit-malware
	- Data Execution Prevention
		- Only data in execurtable areas can run
	- Address space layout randomization

## Cross-site Scripting XSS
Common vulnerability for web-based applications. You know what XSS is. 

- Non-persistent (reflected) XSS attacks
	- Running scripts in input fields like search boxes of websites. 
	- A script embedded in the URL executes in victim's browser.
- Persistent XSS attack
	- When a malicious script/payload is stored on the page.
	- Everyone gets the payload, not just one specified victim.

Prevention's
- Careful with links
- Consider disabling JavaScript
- Keep browser up-to-date
- Validate input!

## Injection Attacks
When the attacker injects their own code into the data-stream. This is enabled because of bad programming.

- SQL Injection
	- Common DB and commonly exploited
	- Usually happens via input sanitation failure
- XML injection and LDAP injection
	- XML - extensible markup language
	- You can modify XML requests
- LDAP Injection
	- Modify LDAP requests to manipulate application results
- DLL Injection
	- DLL - Dynamic Link Library
	- Injecting code into a dll to have the app run it for us.

## Buffer Overflows
Occurs when one section of memory is able to spill over into other sections of memory. If an attacker can control this they can gain access to memory they are not suppose to.

This is commonly due to poor programming. Especially with languages that deal with a lot of memory management.

This is a low-level exploit and hard to exploit.

## Replay Attacks
Attackers installing a network tap into a physical network in a physical or logical way, to intercept valuable data over a network.
- Ways to get onto a network
	- Network tap
	- ARP poisoning
	- Malware on a victim computer

The term replay attack comes from when an attacker achieves this network access and replays peoples data to appear as someone else.

This is not an on-path attack. The attacker basically mimics the victim to try and convince a server or host that they are the victim.

Prevention
- Make sure network communication is **always** encrypted
- Use salting on hashes

Make sure your browser cookies are secure. These cookie are specific and valuable, they are like you name tag. If an attacker can get a cookie like a session id, they can use this to imitate you.

The attacker can use header manipulation to launch a replay or session attack.

Prevent session hijacking with
- Encryption end-to-end
- Encrypt end-to-somewhere
	- Personal VPN

## Request Forgeries
Cross-site request are common and legitimate. HTML directs request from your browsers so show videos or other data from other sites, hints the term cross-site request.

Request forgeries uses the trust between your browser and sites of cross-site request.
- Client
	- Renders
	- HTML, JavaScript
- Server
	- HTML, PHP
	- Post a video to YT
	- Transfer money 

Cross-site request forgery takes advantage of the trust that a web application has for the user.
- The website trusts your browser
- Requests are made without your consent or knowledge
- Attacker posts a Facebook status on your account

**Server-side request forgery** (SSRF)
Requires attacker find a vulnerable web server.
- Sends requests to web server
- Web server performs the request on behalf of the attacker
- Caused by bad programming

## Driver Manipulation
**Zero-day** - brand new vulnerability being actively exploited in the wild.

Drivers are trusted by the OS and therefore a great target for attackers. Hardware drivers contain sensitive information such as video, keyboard, and mouse data.

**Shimming** - filling the space between two objects. Windows uses shimming via compatibility mode to allow apps to be run on older OS's via a shim.

Malware authors write their own shims to get around security like UAC (User Account Control)

**Refactoring** - "Metamorphic malware" is when attackers change the malware a little bit, adding pointless code, to make it look like new Malware. 
 - Reorder functions
 - Modify application flow
 - Reorder code and insert unused data types
This makes it difficult for anti-malware to make its signature with known signatures of malware.

## SSL Stripping 
**SSL Stripping / HTTP downgrade attack**
- Combines an on=path attach with a downgrade attack
- Difficult to implement, but big returns

Attacker must sit in the middle between client and server to modify data that is transmitted, downgrading the protocol. If the server doesn't like this the attacker can receive the HTTPS message, decrypt it and send it to the victim over HTTP.

If the user send sensitive information over the HTTP connection, that will be visible to the attacker.

- This attack strips the S out of HTTPS to make it insecure / downgrading to HTTP.
- Attacker can also downgrade TLS to SSL

Many browsers and web servers force or expect HTTPS communication

## Race Conditions
In programming, events occur simultaneously and can cause problems if not dealt with properly. Race conditions can cause big problems.

**Time-of-check to time-of-use attack (TOCTOU)** - 
- Check the system
- When do you use the results of your last check?
- Something might happen between the check and use

## Other Application Attacks
**Memory vulnerabilities**
Memory leak - 
- Unused memory in not properly released
- Begins to slowly grow in size
- Eventually uses all available memory
- System crashes (Good for DDoS attack)

**Null Pointer dereference** - where attackers tricks pointer to point to NULL/empty space in memory. Can cause the application to crash.

**Integer overflow** - big number put into a small memory space where not enough space is available and memory overflows into other parts of memory.

**Directory Traversal Attack** - allows attacker to look into different parts of a server through moving through directories outside of the space they are suppose to stay in.
- This looks like GET http[]()://www.example.com/../../../Windows/importantfile.

**Improper error handling** - error messages should not show too much information to the user. Just enough information, too much information about the system could leak sensitive information an attacker could use against us. 

**Improper input handling** - can lead to SQL injections, buffer overflows etc. Always validate data as legitimate before passing it to the server.

**API attacks** - manipulating an API to provide more data than normal to the attacker. 
- Exposing sensitive data
- DoS
- Privileged access

**Resource exhaustion** - attacker uses up the available resources so that no one else can access the server. (Type of DoS attack). e.g. ZIP bomb, fork bomb.