# Explain different threat actors, vectors, and intelligence sources
## Threat Actors
An entity responsible for an event that has an impact on another entity.
- Also called a malicious actor.
- **Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)** is the goal for a threat actor that is the attacker getting into the network and undetected.

**Insiders** are threat actors that are already inside the network. These are dangerous because they are trusted and given access. These can be 
- Employees
- Contractors
They also have a huge number of 

**Nation states** are government threat actors, usually external. They have lots of resources. Examples are
- North Korea
- Russia

**Hacktivist** are hacker and activist. They have a purpose that may be social change or propaganda. 
- Limited resources
- Sophisticated

**Script kiddies** use pre-made scripts, not even knowing exactly what they do.
- This doesn't have to be a kid, either way they aren't sophisticated.
- This can be external or internal
- Low resources

**Organized crime** are professional criminals who are almost always motivated by a financial gain.
- They are very sophisticated 
- They can be as organized as a normal company
- Have access to lots of funds

**Hackers** are experts with technology often driven by money, power and ego. They can be white hat or black hat hackers. Ethical or non-ethical. Or even semi-authorized, which is in the middle.

**Shadow IT** is employees working around IT "going rogue". They may do this because they feel restricted by IT. This promotes 
- Wasted time and money
- Security risk
- Compliance issues
- Dysfunctional organization

**Competitors** have many motivations. They have
- High sophisticated
- High resources
- Many different intents


## Attack Vectors
This is the method the attackers uses to get into the network or computer.

**Direct Access attack vectors** are AVs that are at the hardware level where attacker have "direct" access to the system.
- A common attack vector is booting into an admin mode and changing passwords, modifying the OS.
- Keyloggers can be used on USB or keyboards to collect credentials.
- Transferring files to a portable media 
- DoS via damaging the system or pulling to plug

**Wireless attack vectors** 
- Default login credentials
- Rogue access point - a less-secure entry point to the network 
- Evil twin - emulates access points or WAPs to try and get users to connect to it
- Protocol vulnerabilities

**Email attack vectors** are some of the biggest vectors
- Phishing attacks
- Social engineering
- Deliver malware

**Supply chain attack vectors** 
- Tamper with underlying infrastructure
- Gaining access to network via vendor access

**Social media attack vectors**
- Attackers thank you for your personal info online
- User profiling using Facebook etc.
- Fake friends for social engineering

**Removable media attack vectors**
- USB connections to gather information
- USB devices can act as keyboards
- Malware on USBs
- Data exfiltration

**Cloud attack vectors**
- Publicly facing apps and services
- Security misconfigurations
- Brute force attacks or phishing techniques
- Orchestration attacks that force new instances and cost money
- DoS on cloud services


## Threat Intelligence
This is researching threats. Can come from OSINT, databases, etc
- **OSINT** (Open Source Intelligence)
- Internet
	- Discussion groups, social media
	- Government data - reports, website, etc.
	- Commercial data - maps, databases
- Closed/proprietary intelligence
	- Companies that sell threat intelligence
- Vulnerability databases
	- **Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)**
	- **U.S. National Vulnerability Database (NVD)**
	- NVD provides details on CVE's such as patches, severity
	
- Public/private information-sharing centers
	- Public threat intelligence - often classified data
	- Private threat intelligence
	- **Cyber Threat Alliance (CTA)**
		- Alliance who share threat intelligence
	- **Automated indicator sharing (AIS)**
		- **Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX)**
			- Describes cyber threat information
			- Includes motivations, abilities, capabilities, and response information.log 
		- Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information (**TAXII**) securely shares STIX data.

- Dark web intelligence
	- Hacking groups and services
	- Sales website for illegal material
	- Forums
	
- Indicators of compromise (**IOC**)
	- An event that indicate an intrusion

- Predictive analysis
	- Analyzing large amounts of data quickly to understand where attackers are focusing their efforts.
	- Creates a forecast for potential attacks
	- Often combined with machine learning

**Threat maps** - Fireeye threat map

- Code repositories are monitored for exploits


## Threat Research
Know your enemy, this is a never ending process, collecting information from different places.
- Vendors and manufacturers websites
- Vulnerability feed - like NVD by NIST and CVE rolled into one management system
- Conferences - new attacks, techniques, stories, networking etc.
- Academic journals - research for professionals, very detailed
- Request for comments (**RFC**)
	- Published by Internet Society (**ISOC**)
		- Often written by Internet Engineering Task Force (**IETF**)
- Local industry groups - gathering of local peers (ISSA)
- Social media - twitter, command and control 
- Threat feeds - monitor threat announcements
	- DHS, SANS, FBI, etc.
- **TTP** (Tactics, techniques, and procedures) - what are adversaries doing and how?
	- Search through data and networks
	- Types
		- Information on targeted victims (Finance for energy)
		- Infrastructure used by attackers (DNS and IPs)
		- Outbreak of a particular malware variant on a service type