# Explain the security concerns associated with various types of vulnerabilities

## Vulnerability Types
**Zero-day attacks** are vulnerabilities that are actively being exploited in the wild that have not been published or found.

**Open permissions** can be used when the door is left wide open for attackers. This is becoming more of a focus with cloud storage.

**Unsecured root accounts** can be used by an attacker is it is misconfigured or has a weak password. Access to admin accounts should be monitored.

**Errors** can give too much information such as 
- Service type, version information, debug data

**Weak encryption** is was weakly encrypted data that opens up vulnerabilities for attackers. Encryption key length, good hash algorithms, and good wireless encryption are factors. TLS protocol for example has over 300 cipher suites ranging in security.

**Insecure protocols** are protocols that aren't encrypted such as
- Telnet, FTP, SMTP, IMAP, HTTP
You should verify everything over the network is encrypted

**Default settings** such as a default login may not be changed. This is an attackers dream. 

**Open ports and services** can be used, if not secure, by attackers. Use firewalls that manage port rules. You should audit your firewall rules as well.

**Improper patch management** of course will leave systems vulnerable if not patched completely. These can be firmware, OS, or app patches.

**Legacy platforms** old devices that are no longer being patched can be vulnerable. 


## Third-party Risks
You should always expect the worse when dealing with third-parties that have access to your network. Put security policies and procedures and physical security in place to prevent a breach via third-party.

The lack of vendor support can require diligence of security. You have to make sure vendors are aware and responsive to vulnerabilities. 

**Supply chain risk** are always prevalent. You can't control vendor or supply-chain security so always maintain local security controls. Check software and hardware from third-parties.

**Outsourced code development** must be secure.
- Where code is stored
- Verify security to other systems
- Test the code security

**Data storage** needs to be secure as well.
- May need encryption
- Transferring data needs to be encrypted


## Vulnerability Impacts
Malicious cyber activity cost the  U.S. economy between 57 billion and 109 billion in 206. Costs and loss are the impacts of vulnerability impacts.
- Data loss  - unsecured databases, meow attack
- Identify theft - stealing data and using it or selling it or whatever
- Financial loss - of course data is money just like time
	- Society for Worldwide Inter-bank Financial Telecommunications (**SWIFT**) is used to transfer money across the world and has been hacked multiple times.
- Reputation impacts - getting hacked looks bad, stock drops, loss of customers, etc.
- Availability loss - outages and downtime, e.g. ransomware
