# Summarize the importance of policies, processes, and procedures for incident response

## Incident Response Process
**Security incidents** - these incidents can be different things   
- Malware execution
- DDoS
- Data leak
- Ransomware infection

**Roles and responsibilities**   
- IR team - a specialized group, trained and tested
	- IT security management
	- Compliance officers
	- Technical Staff
	- User community

**NIST SP800-61**
- National Institute of Standards and Technology
	- Incident response lifecycle:
		- Preparation
		- Detection and Analysis
		- Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
		- Post-incident activity

**Preparing for and incident**    
- Communication methods - Phones and contact information
- Incident handling hardware and software - cameras, laptops, etc
- Incident analysis resource - documentation, baselines, etc
- Incident mitigation software - Clean OS and app images
- Policies and procedures

**Incident precursors**     
- An incident might occur in the future
	- Web server log
	- Exploit announcement
	- Direct threats (state actors, etc)

**Incident indicators**    
- Using IPS/IDS and anti-malware
- Host-based file integrity monitoring detection
- Network traffic deviation

**Isolation and containment** - Sandboxes. This may not be good/needed though    

**Recovery after an incident**    
- Remove bug, malware, vulnerabilities
- This is why backups are important

**Reconstitution** - Recovery may take months, the plan should be efficient. Reconstitution is a phased approach.    

**Lesson learned** - learn and improve    


## Incident Response Planning
### Exercise
Testing your organization before the any event happens.   
- Use well defined **rules of engagement**

**Tabletop exercises** - Talking (over a tabletop) over the response actions that key players would take in a simulated disaster. This is way less costly.    

**Walkthrough** - One above tabletop exercise. Involves walking through every process and procedure, involving all groups.    

**Simulation** - This can be a simulated data breach, or phishing attack. Once you see who bites and send them to training camp.     

**Stakeholder management** - Keep an good ongoing relationship with customers of IT. Most of this happens prior to, and after an incident.     

**Communication plan** - Having a plan to contact everybody who needs to be called in, technical or not.    
- Government agencies may use US-CERT (Computer Emergency Readiness Team)

### Disaster recovery plan
All disasters need to have a disaster recovery plan.    

**Continuity of operations planning (COOP)** - If a disaster happens, how does the business continue operations.    

**Incident response team** - This team receives, reviews/analysis, and responds. May be a 3rd party or on a pulled together basis.    

**Retention policies** - These are policies related to your backed up data including data lifecycle, regulatory compliance, operational needs. Anything that needs to retain data in an incident.     


## Attack Frameworks
**MITRE ATT&Ck framework** - From MITRE, this attack framework supports several US agencies and provides.    
- Identifying points of intrusion
- Understanding methods used to move around
- Identifying potential security techniques to block future attacks

**Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis** - Designed by the intel community.   
- Applies scientific principles to intrusion analysis
	- Measurement, testability, and repeatability

**Cyber Kill Chain** - Concept of 7 phases of a cyber attack:   
1. Recon - gathering intel
2. Weaponization - building payload
3. Delivery -send the weapon over a medium
4. Exploit - execute code on victim's device
5. Installation - install malware
6. C&C - C2 channel created for remote access
7. Actions on objectives - carry out objectives (steal data, spy, install ransomware etc.)

