# Given an incident, utilize appropriate data sources to support an investigation

## Vulnerability Scan Output
**Identify vulnerability** - Scanners look for signitures of vulnerabilities.   
- Vulnerabilities can also be cross-referenced
	- National Vulnerability Database (NVD)
	- MS Security Bulletins

**Scan results**  
- Lack of security controls (No firewall, anti-virus, etc)
- Misconfigurations (open shares, guest access)
- Real vulnerabilities (like Log4j, Policykit, etc)

**Dealing with false positives** - Different then low severity vulnerabilities, these vulnerabilities don't exits.    
**False negative** - When you have a vulnerability but did not detect it. To mitigate false positives or negatives, keep your signatures updated.


## SIEM Dashboards
**SIEM** - Security Information and Event Management   
- Security alerts using logging with real-time information
- Also allows data correlation and forensic analysis

- **Sensors and logs** - logs such as syslogs and sensors such as NetFlow.    
- **Sensitivity** - ability to parse data into categories ranging in sensitivity.    
- **Trends** - id changes and easily view attack metrics.   
- **Alerts** - id security event and visualize the log info and raw data.
- **Correlation** - combining and comparing data.


## Log Files
**Network logs** - Switches, routes, etc. logs that log network changes, routing updates, authentication issues, etc. This depends on the logs device.   

**System logs** - OS information, file system, authentication details. There is a lot of data in syslogs, this may require filtering.   

**Application logs** - Specific to application. Parse the log details in the SIEM
- Windows: `Event Viewer / Application Log`
- Linux: `/var/log`

**Security logs** - Detailed security-related information including allowed/blocked traffic, exploit attempts, DNS sinkhole traffic, etc. These logs are created on IPS, firewalls, and proxies. This information is critical.    

**Firewall logs** - Shows traffic that is blocked and allowed. A WAF provides more information in there logs.     

**Web log files** - Web server errors, access, exploit attempts, and server activity.    

**DNS log files** - View queries in general and to bad IPs, and block or modify bad request.     

**Authentication log files** - Know who logged in, brute-force attacks, and correlate with other logs.     

**Dump files** - Taking an application and dump the logs in memory into a file. We can use this to troubleshoot issues.     

**VoIP and call manager logs** - Viewing in and outbound call information. Get security information such as authentications and SIP traffic logs. These logs can be used to alert unusual country codes.      


## Log Management
**Syslog** - Standard for message logging    
- Usually a central logging receiver, a SIEM
- Each log entry is labeled (Facility code and severity level)
- Syslog daemon options (syslog-ng, Rsyslog, etc)

**Journalctl** - provides a method for querying the sys journal via search, filters, and plain text viewing.     

**Bandwidth monitors** - Using SNMP, NetFlow, sFlow, or IPFIX to gather bandwidth to identify fundamental issues.    

**Metadata** - Data that describes other types of data. Use exiftool to show metadata       
- Types:
	- Email - Header details, destination address, sending servers
	- Mobile - Type of phone, GPS location
	- Web - OS, browser type, IP address
	- File - Name, address, phone number, title

**NetFlow** - Standardized methods for gathering traffic stats from all traffic flows.    
- Probe and collector:
	- Probes sit on the network and then sent to the collector to make reports.

**IPFIX** - IP Flow information Export, a new version of NetFlow v9.    
- Flexible data support

**sFlow** - Sampled Flow - Only looking at a sample of the actual network traffic. Usually embedded in switches, routers, etc.    

**Protocol analyzer output** - View detailed traffic information (Wireshark)     
