# Given an incident, apply mitigation techniques or controls to secure an environment

## Endpoint Security Configuration
**Endpoint** - phone, desktop PC, "end user device".   

**Application whitelisting** - A listing of approved applications that pose no threat. Once an application has been whitelisted it can be used on that endpoint.    
- May use application/executable hashes
- Digital signatures and certificates
- Use your Path allow only apps in the Path to execute
- Network Zone can be used to allow/deny


**Application blacklisting** - A listing of apps no allowed to be on an endpoint. It's common for anti-malware from implementing this.     

**Quarantine** - A folder/place on an endpoint where applications are not allowed to run.   


## Security Configurations
**Firewall rules** - Used to manage application flows.    
**Mobile Device Manager (MDM)** - Manage mobile devices regardless of physical location. Including enabling/disabling functionality.      
**Data Loss Prevention (DLP)** - Identifies and blocks any PII (personal identifiable information) or sensitive data.    

**Configuration changes** 
- Content/URL filters
- Updating or revoking certificates

**Isolation** - Moving a compromised/insecure device away from everything else.   
- Maybe isolate to a VLAN (Network isolation)
- Process isolation to isolate application execute 

**Containment** - Using sandboxes for applications, limiting interactions with the host.   

**Segmentation** - Separating the internal network to limit the scope of a breach and prevent unauthorized movement.     

**SOAR (Security Orchestration Automation and Reponse)**  - Used to integrate various 3rd party tools and data sources.   
- Many contain **Runbooks** that give a step-by-step approach to automation such as resetting password, and creating certificates. 
- Combined with **Playbooks** that give a play-by-play for incidents that can occur.