# Explain the key aspects of digital forensics

## Digital Forensics
**Digital forensics** - Collecting and protecting information relating to an intrusion.   
**RFC 3227** - Guidelines for Evidence Collection and Archiving.    

**Legal hold** - A legal technique to preserve relevant information.   
- Often stored in a repo for **Electronically Stored Information (ESI)**. 

**Capture video** - Via phones or security cameras that must be archived can provide valuable evidence.    

**Admissibility** - Not all data can be used in a court of law. Legal authorization is also a concern along with procedures and tools.   

**Chain of custody** - Documentation that shows anyone who comes in contact with evidence.    

**Recording time offsets** - Documenting the time zones the evidence uses, different file systems and OS's use different time zones.    

**Event logs** - System logs and other logs that document important OS and application events.   
- Linux: `/var/log`
- Windows: `Event Viewer`

**Interviews** - May perform interviews on users. Humans are still fallible however.   

**Reports** - Summary information, detailed documentation, findings, and conclusions.    


## Forensics Data Acquisition
**Order of volatility** - From most to least volatile.   
1. CPU registers, CPU cache
2. Router table, ARP cache, process table, kernel stats, memory
3. Temp file systems
4. Disk
5. Remote logging and monitoring data
6. Physical configuration, network topology
7. Archival media/backups

Capture most volatile data first because it can become unavailable sooner.    

**Disk**    
- Copy everything on a storage device
- Drive image preparation
- Connect to imaging device
- Forensic clone

**RAM** - Hard to capture. Memory dumping could grab everything in active RAM.   

**Swap/pagefile**    
- Swap is often extra RAM when your RAM is taken up
- Contains data similar to a RAM dump

**OS**
- Core OS files and libraries can be compared to known-good files.  
- Other OS data includes ports, login ogs, processes, attached device list.

**Device**     
- Mobile or tablets
- Capture data through USBs or backups
- Data can include phone calls, text, email, photos, etc

**Firmware**    
- You may need to extract firmware if a rootkit was used, etc.
- This can help understand method of exploitation, functionality, and real-time 

**Snapshot**
- Each snapshot is an incremental update from the full backup
- Contains all files and info about the VM

**Cache** - Temp, quick-access storage.    
- Often contained specialized data
- Data may include, URLs, Browser page components

**Network** - Gather network traffic to view a timeline of an event.     

**Artifacts** - Digital items left behind (flash memory, recycle bin, bookmarks and logins)      


## On-Prem vs. Cloud Forensics
**Forensics in the cloud** - Adds complexity    
- May have limited access
- Hard to associate data with user
- Legal issues depending on location

**Right-to-audit clauses**    
- Common to work with BU including data sharing and outsourcing
- Company and CSP can agree to a right-to-audit
**Regulatory/jurisdiction**    
- Work closely with a legal team

**Data breach notification laws** - Laws that relate to letting customers know if their data has been breached.    


## Managing Evidence
**Integrity** - Use hashing to maintain integrity. You can also use a Checksum.    
- Provenance is the original source of the data

**Preservation** - This includes isolating and protecting, making copies/backups, etc. Live collection can make this much harder.    

**E-discovery** - Electronic discovery works together with digital forensics.   

**Data recovery** - Recovering deleted, hidden, corrupted, or damaged data.   

**Non-repudiation** - Proof of data integrity and the origin of the data.    
- **Message Authentication Code (MAC)** - 2 parties can verify non-repudiation  
- Digital Signature - publicly verified

**Strategic intelligence/counterintelligence**
- Focus on key threat activity for a domain
- Determine trends about threats
- **Strategic counterintelligence (CI)**
	- ID someone gathering information on you and then gather information on them
