# Explain the importance of security concepts in an enterprise environment

## Configuration management
This is includes OS, patches, app updates, network mods, etc.
- ID and document hardware and software settings
- Rebuild systems if disaster occurs

**Diagrams**
- Network Diagrams - physical data center layout, device diagrams, panels, wires.

**Baseline configuration** - the security of an app environment should be well defined.
- Firewall settings, patch levels, OS file version
- Integrity measurements check for the secure baseline

**Standard naming conventions** - create a standard for device (names, numbers, location, serial numbers) or networks (port labeling) or domain configurations such as usernames or email addresses.

**IP schema** - an IP address plan or model.
- Location - # of subnets, hosts per subnet
- IP ranges
- Reserved addresses


## Protecting Data
A primary job task, data is **everywhere**. 
- Encryption, security policies
- Data permissions

**Data sovereignty** - Data that resides in a country is subject to the law of that country.
- **GDPR** (General Data Protection Regulation) - data collected in the EU has to be stored in the EU.
**Data masking** - data obfuscation to hide some of the data. This protects **PII** (Personal Identification Information). Techniques include:
- Substituting shuffling, encrypting, masking out.
**Data encryption** - taking **plaintext** data and encrypting it into **ciphertext** 
- Confusion - the encrypted data is drastically different than the plaintext.
- Diffusion - change one character of the input, and many characters change of the output
**Data at-rest** - on a storage device. We encrypt the data to protect it. Also maybe apply permissions.
**Data in-transit** - over the network. Network-based protection (Firewall, IPS) and transport encryption (TLS, IPsec).
**Data in-use** - actively in memory. Usually in plaintext, therefore a nice target.
**Tokenization** - replace sensitive data with a non-sensitive placeholder
- Common with credit card processing
- This isn't hashing or encryption, just substitution

**Information Rights Management (IRM)** - controlling how data is used. 
- Restrict data access to unauthorized persons
	- Prevent copy & paste, Control screenshots, printing, restrict editing
- Goal: limit scope of usability of data even if it is gained.


## Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
DLP systems..
- On your computer - data in-use, endpoint DLP
- On your network - data in-motion
- On your server - data at-rest

**USB blocking** - DLP on workstations can allow or deny USB connections.
**Cloud-based DLP** - blocks customer defined data strings.
- Manage access to URLs
- Block viruses and malware
**DLP and email** - check outbound and inbound email and block sensitive information. 
- Block keywords, id impostors, etc.


## Manage Security
**Geographical considerations** 
- Legal implications - regulations, international, refer to legal teams.
- Offsite backup - where are they, who can control it.
- Offsite recovery - hosted in different location, travel considerations.
**Response and recovery controls** 
- Incident response and recovery has become common place.
- IR plan should be established - documentation is critical, id attack and contain it.
- Limit the impact of an attacker - limit data ex-filtration and access to sensitive data.
**SSL/TLS inspection** 
- Examine SSL/TLS data on the network to determine legitimacy.
- SSL/TLS relies on trust
	- Browser has CAs (certificate authorities) 
	- Browser doesn't trust a site unless CA has signed the web server's encryption certificate. (site pays money to the CA for this)
	- CA performs checks.
	- Browser checks web server's CA to it's CA.
**SSL/TLS proxy**
- Often a firewall or SSL decryption device.
- Use internal CA for proxy and users.
- The proxy encrypts and re-encrypts traffic to analyze traffic.
**Hashing** 
- Also called a "message digest"
- One-way encryption. Used to store passwords
- Used to verify a downloaded file
- Can be a digital signature.
- Collision hashes - 2 different inputs creating the same hash.
**API (Application Programming Interfaces) considerations**
- Control software or hardware programmatically
- Secure and harden login page
- Can be used for an **on-path attack** 
- **API Injection** - inject data into an API message/flows
- A bad API can enable DDoS 
**API Security**
- Authentication
	- Limit API access
	- Over secure protocols
- Authorization
	- Limit permissions
- WAF (Web Application Firewall)
	- Apply rules to API communication


## Site Resiliency
- Recovery site is prepped, data is synchronized
- A disaster is called, business processes failover to alternate site.
- Problem is addressed, can take extended period of time.
- Revert back to OG local. This process must be documented.

**Hot site**
- Exacted replica of site
- Everything is duplicated
- Apps and software updated automatically
- Flip a switch and everything moves

**Cold site** 
- No hardware, empty building
- No data, bring it with you
- No people, bus in your team

**Warm site**
- Middle of hot and cold
- Big room rack space, bring hardware
- Just enough to get going


## Honeypots and Deception
**Honeypots** - pots (sites) to attract attackers
- Virtual world or fake system
- Kippo, Google Hack Honeypot, Wordpot

**Honeyfiles and honeynets**
- Honeynet - Multiple honeypots on a network. More [here](https://projecthoneypot.org)
- Honeyfiles - bait for attackers such as passwords.txt. Virtual bear trap

**Fake telemetry** 
- Machine learning to interpret big data to id threats
- Train machine with actual data (worms, malware, trojans, etc.)
- Send the machine fake telemetry.
	- Training AI to let malware in.

**DNS sinkhole** 
- DNS that hands out incorrect IP addresses, blackhole DNS
- This can be bad if an attacker uses a DNS sinkhole
- More commonly used to provide defensive intel. 
	- Redirect malicuous IPs to benign IPs
	- Often integrated into a firewall or IDS


