# Given a scenario, implement secure mobile solutions

## Mobile Networks
**Point-2-point**
- 1-2-1 connection - conversation between two devices
- Connections between buildings such as P2P network links
- Also used with WiFi repeaters

**Point-2-multipoint**
- More common - 802.11 wireless
- This doesn't imply full connectivity between nodes

**Cellular networks**
- Cell towers create "cells" of coverage
- Security concerns - 
	- Traffic monitoring, GPS tracking, worldwide access

**WiFi** - Local network access
- Security concerns - 
	- Data capture, use encryption
	- On-path attack
	- DoS using jamming

**Bluetooth**
- High speed communication
- aka PAN (Personal Area Network)
- Connects our mobile devices
	- Smartphones, headsets, cars, speakers, tethering, etc.

**RFID (Radio-frequency identification)**
- Access badges, pet tracking, anything that needs to be tracked
- Uses radar technology
	- The RF powers the device and the ID of the device is transmitted back

**NFC (Near field Communication)**
- 2-way wireless communication
- Uses in chip credit cards
- Helps bootstrap bluetooth pairing
- Could be an access token
- Security concerns
	- Remote capture
	- Jamming
	- Relay / Replay attack
	- You can lose your NFC

**IR (infrared)** - Used for TV's or entertainment centers in remotes. File transfers are possible.

**USB (Universal Serial Bus)** - Plugs into your phone or laptop. Physical access is always a concern.

**GPS** - Created by the DoD. Determines location based on timing differences on the satellites.


## Mobile Device Management
**Mobile Device Management (MDM)**
- Used to manage BOYD devices and company owned devices
- Centralized management
- Set policies, apps, data, camera, and access control such as as PINs or screen locks

**Application management**
- There are always concerns of malicious apps or vulnerable apps
- Use an allow list for apps devices can download
	- However this is a lot of overhead for management

**Content management**
- **Mobile Content Management (MCM)**
	- Secure data and protect it from outsiders
- Includes file sharing and viewing
- **DLP** prevents copy/paste sensitive data
- Also ensure all data is **encrypted**
- These are usually configured on the MDM

**Remote wipe**
- Make sure we have a way to wipe a device if it is lost or stolen
- This is often done from the MDM
- This is also configured before the device is deployed
- Always have a backup so you can wipe and replace the device

**Geolocation** - many mobile devices have this which is very precise and can be a security issue
**Geofencing** - some MDMs allow this so that when a device is taken out of a "geofence", certain features are enabled or disabled

**Screen lock** - All mobile devices can be locked to prevent access from attackers. There are also settings that can enable too many login attempts, complex passwords, and even data wipes if the password is guessed wrong too many time.

**Push notification services** - These are notifications that pop up on your lock screen. These can be controlled by the MDM.

**Passwords and PINS** - Devices may use MFA. There also should be a password recovery protocol.

**Biometrics** - Something you are. This is sometimes easy to circumvent. Availability is managed through the MDM.

**Context-aware authentication** - Combines context to figure out who is trying to login. This may use you location, IP, Bluetooth connections, etc. This is an emerging technology.

**Containerization** - Creating a virtual container to separate sensitive data from personal data in storage.

**Full device encryption** - This is encrypting data on a device incase you lose it. However this can use a lot of overhead. You also HAVE to keep the decryption key, which should be backed up to the MDM.


## Mobile Device Security
**MicroSD HSM (Hardware Security Module)** - Provides HSM functions to mobile devices such as encryption, key generation, authentication, etc. Also used for secure storage.

**Unified Endpoint Management (UEM)** - This is an evolution of MDM, which manages all mobile and non-mobile devices. 

**Mobile Application Management (MAM)** - Used for provision, updating, and removing applications. Can use an app catalog like TechNow. This can also monitor the application and provide remote wipe for application data.

**SEAndroid** - Security Enhancements for Android. Provides additional AC security policies. Made by the NSA. Provides a broad scope of system security.
- Prevents direct access to the kernel
- Change from Discretionary Access Control (DAC) to Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
- Centralized policy configurations


## Mobile Device Enforcement
**3rd party app stores** - Not every app on app stores are secure. Also a lot of apps are not appropriate for work such as games, social media, etc. Use a MDM to manage this.

**Rooting/jailbreaking** - Users can root or jailbreak their device. This can make an MDM useless.
**Carrier unlocking** - Phones are usually locked to their ISPs cellular network. However you can unlock the phone which may be okay or illegal. This can also get around an MDM.

**Firmware OTA updates** - Over the air updates on mobile devices. These can be security patches or OS updates. The MDM can manage what OTA updates are allowed once tested. 

**Camera use** - It's almost impossible to control camera use except with an MDM. This can prevent corporate espionage using geofencing.

**SMS/MMS** - Short Message Service / Mulitmedia Messaging Service. Texting can be controlled by the MDM to prevent smishing, etc.

**External media** - MDMs can be used to limit or stop data writing to external drives to prevent data leakage via an inside threat actor.

**USB OTG (onthego)** - Connects two mobile devices. May be too convenient from a security perspective.

**Recording Audio** - This can be useful be also may be a legal liability depending on laws. This can be disabled from the MDM.

**Geotagging / GPS tagging** - Using your location in your metadata such as photos, PDFs, ect. This may be a security concern. Control from MDM.

**WiFi Direct / ad hoc** - Allows 2 devices to directly communicate. This can be insecure for data in transit.

**Hotspot / tethering** - These can be used instead of corporate connection. Can be very insecure and can open up attack vectors. Should be disabled on the MDM.

**Payment methods** - Uses NFC and should use proper security.


## Mobile Deployment Models
**BYOD** - Using your own devices for corporate use. This is difficult to secure. 
**COPE** - Corporate owned, personally enabled. Organization keeps full control of the device.
**CYOD** - Choose your own device. Similar to COPE but with users choice of device.
**Corporate-owned** - Only for work. No personal use at all.
**VDI/VMI** - Virtual Desktop/Mobile Infrastructure. Keeps apps and data separated from the mobile device. This way if your lose the device, you still have the data. Apps are managed centrally.
