# Given a scenario, apply cybersecurity solutions to the cloud

## Cloud Security Controls
**HA across zone** - Availability zones (**AZ**). Self-contained and independent cloud regions. Build apps to be highly available (**HA**). We can use this and a load balancer to provide good HA.

**Resource policies** - Use Identity and access management (**IAM**) to manage permissions, groups, etc. based on IP, time, group, or whatever you want. We can also centralize user accounts.

**Secrets management** - Cloud computing included many secret keys and phrases so we have to be good at managing them. Services like CyberArk can help. These can provide AC policy and an audit trial.

**Integration and auditing** - Integrate security across platforms and devices, then consolidate the logs collected to the Security Information and Event Management (**SIEM**). Auditing can validate security control and verify compliance with security policy both legal and corporal.


## Securing Cloud Storage
**Cloud storage** - This data is on a public cloud and access can be limited. Data may require to be stored in a nation.

**Permissions** - Make sure your data is not public by default. You can use IAM, bucket policies, global blocking, and not putting data in the cloud when it doesn't have to be.

**Encryption** - Use server-side encryption and maybe client-side encryption to further secure data on the cloud. The key management used to encrypt this data is very important.

**Replication** - Copying cloud data to multiple places to create redundancy incase of disaster. Can use hot sites for this. Or we can do this do analyze the data separately.


## Securing Cloud Networks
**Cloud networks** - Connection can be achieved through a VPN or the internet. Cloud devices also need to talk to each other maybe using East/West communication.

**Virtual networks** - We can create virtual infrastructure in the cloud. This infrastructure can be created and destroyed instantly.

**Public and private subnets** - Private clouds that have internal IP addresses and are not connected to the internet. Public clouds are for mass access using external IPs. And hybrid clouds combine these.

**Segmentation** - Separation between application components is a security opportunity. We can also use virtual security technologies such as
- WAF / Web Application Firewall
- NGFW / Next-Generation Firewall
- IPS / Intrusion Prevention System

**API inspection and integration** - APIs calls can include risk to open attack vectors to sensitive information. 


## Securing Compute Clouds
**Compute cloud instances** - IaaS used for computing such as EC2, GCE, etc. We can manage the resources to these instances.

**Security groups** - We can use a firewall to control traffic flow from and to the instances.

**Dynamic resource allocation** - Provisioning or deprovisioning instances based on need. This also includes scaling up and down or rapid elasticity. This can minimize cost.

**Instance awareness** - We can use granular security controls to define and set polices for sharing and storing information.

**Virtual private cloud endpoints** - VPC gateway endpoints can allow applications that can run privately and keep resources private. VPC endpoints allow us to access our cloud from our VPN without going through the internet.

**Container security** - We can use containers on top of an OS and groups of them to perform similar functions. However security concerns such as bugs, misconfigurations, and insufficient security controls. 


## Cloud Security Solutions
**Cloud access security broker (CASB)** - Use a CASB to help enforce existing security policies. Basically like cloud police. 
- Operates on
	- Visibility - what is in use, and who has access to apps in use
	- Compliance - HIPAA, PCI, etc.
	- Threat prevention - allow access by authorized users
	- Data security - ensure encryption and PII transfers with DLP

**Application security** - Application misconfigurations are one of the most common security issues. Authorization and access. API security. 

**Next-Gen Secure Web Gateway (SWG)** - Protect users and device, monitor API usage, perform policy checks, examine activities and allow/disallow them. Also uses instance-aware security (production instances are more important)

**Firewalls in the cloud** - Control traffic flows in the cloud. These are pretty inexpensive and allow for segmentation between micro-service, VMs, or VPCs. Can provide management from L4 to L7 (Transport to Application).

**Security controls** - These can be provides by CSP, usually by no additional cost. If you have multiple CSPs, maybe use 3rd party solutions.

