# Given a scenario, implement identity and account management controls

## Identity Controls
**Identity provide (IdP)** - Service that can voucher for a person. Uses a list of entities containing users and devices. Commonly used by Single Sign On. 
- Uses standard authentication methods like SAML, OAuth, OpenID Connect, etc.

**Attributes** - An identifier or property of an entity. May be a name, email, department, etc.  

**Certificates** - Digital certificates can be assigned to a person or device. This requires an existing public-key infrastructure (PKI). CA is the trusted entity who signs the certificates.  

**Tokens and cards** - Smart card, USB token, etc. usually used alone with a PIN.  

**SSH keys** - Use a key instead of a password. This helps automation as well. Key management is critical, you can use SSH key managers.   
- **SSH key-based authentication**:
	- Create key - `ssh-keygen`
	- Copy the public key to the SSH server - `ssh-copy-id user@host`
	- Then try it `ssh user@host`


## Account Types
**User accounts** - Account on a computer associated with a specific person.   
- Storage and files can be private to a specific user
- No privileged access to the OS, most users should have a user account

**Shared and generic accounts** - Guest or anonymous login.  
- Difficult to audit who did what, and manage permissions and passwords

**Guest accounts** - Allows access to guest on a computer.  
- Usually highly restricted and has no password
- Privilege escalation is a concern here

**Service accounts** - Used by background services on a system.e.g. db, web server, etc.  
- Different service account have different permissions based on what they do and need
- Commonly have a username and password

**Privileged accounts** - Admin, or root who have complete access to the system.   
- Often used to manage software and hardware
- Try to not use this account if you don't have to
- Needs to be very secure using strong passwords, MFA, etc


## Account Policies
**Account policies** - Control access, password policies, etc.  

**Auditing**   
- Permission auditing, not everyone needs admin access
- Usage auditing, are resources being accessed securely
- Perform routine audits

**Password complexity and length**   
- High entropy/unpredictability
- Stronger passwords are at least 8 characters
- Prevent password reuse

**Account lockout and disablement** - After so many tries, the system locks out the person trying to get in. We could also disable the account, we normally don't want to delete the account.    

**Location-based policies** - Use network or geolocation to determine where someone is and base their policies on that. We can also use geofencing or geotagging to do this.   

**Time-based policies** - You can also use time to modify policies. For example no one should be working at 3 a.m. so you can block permission during after hours.
****