# Given a scenario, implement authentication and authorization solutions

## Authentication Management
**Password keys** - Hardware-based authentication through something you have. This doesn't replace other factors, passwords are still important. Use this with MFA.   

**Password vaults** - Password managers like Bitwarden. Passwords are encrypted and in the cloud. This also allows for many unique passwords. These are for personal and enterprise usage.    

**Trusted Platform Module (TPM)** - Hardware that provides a cryptographic processor, persistent memory for hard-storing unique keys, and versatile memory for storing keys. These are password protected.    

**Hardware Security Module (HSM)** - High-end cryptographic hardware used for key backup storage, cryptographic acceleration, used in large environments, usually in clusters to add redundancy.   

**Knowledge-based authentication (KBA)**    
- Static KBA - Preconfigured shared secrets like security questions.
- Dynamic KBA - Questions are not preconfigured. Instead an identity verification service to pull information from public record that only you would know.


## PAP and CHAP
**PAP (Password Authentication Protocol)** - A basic authentication method.  
- Problems
	- PAP sends data in the clear
	- Non-encrypted password exchange
	- Weak authentication scheme
	- These days only the username is sent in the clear

**CHAP (Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol)** - Encrypted challenge sent over the network. (Next step up)    
- Three-way handshake
	- Link established and server sends challenge message
	- Client responds with a password hash made from the challenge and password
	- Server compares hash with stored hash
- This handshake occurs periodically during the connection

**MS-CHAP** - Microsoft's implementation of CHAP, this is old however so don't use it.   


## Identity and Access Services
**RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial-in User Service)** - A common AAA protocol.   
- Not just for dial-in
- Centralize authentication for users
	- Routers, Server authentication, 802.1X network access

**TACAS (Terminal Access Controller Access-Controller System)** - Alternative to RADIUS. A remote authentication protocol.   
- **XTACAS (Extended TACAS)** - A Cisco-created version of TACAS providing additional support for accounting and auditing.   
- **TACAS+** - Latest version of TACAS that uses more authentication requests and response codes. Released in 1993. Best TACAS

**Kerberos** - Network authentication protocol that uses SSO (Single sign on). Uses mutual authentication. Protects against on-path and replay attacks.   
- Used on Windows
- Authenticate one time using service tickets
- Saves time not signing in every time

**Which one of these is the best?**    
- Depends on devices (Microsoft, Cisco, etc.)

**IEEE 802.1X** - Port-based Network Access Control (NAC). This is used so that you don't get access to the network until you authenticate.   
- **EAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol)** integrates with 802.1X
- Used in conjunction with an access database such as RADIUS, LDAP, or TACACS+


## Federation Identities
**Federation** - A way to provide network access using credentials from another service like Twitter, Facebook, or Google, etc.   

**Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)** - Open standard for authentication and authorization for users to access 3rd party resources.   
- Not for mobile application

**OAuth** - Authorization framework that allows us to control what types resources a 3rd party can access. This is not an authentication protocol.   
**OpenID Connect** - Provides authentication to OAuth, handling SSO and authentication between applications.    
- This configuration is very popular.
- Used to share information between apps


## Access Control
**Authorization** - The process of ensuring only authorized rights are exercised. Also known as policy enforcement. We need a policy definition to do this.   
- Users receive rights based on Access Control models

**Mandatory Access Control (MAC)** - Require configuration of clearance levels and association with parts of the OS to their respective clearance.   
- Every object gets a label (confidential, secret, top secret)
- Admin decides the users level (secret, top secret, whatever)

**Discretionary Access Control (DAC)** - The user controls who has access and permissions to the object/file. This is weak for security though.   

**Role-based access control (RBAC)** - Each employee has a role and their rights and permissions are based on their role.  
- E.g. Windows has Groups to provide RBAC

**Attribute-based access control (ABAC)** - Considers many parameters such as IP address, time of day, resource type, relationships, etc. to determine access.   

**Rule-based access control** - Admin defines rules and everyone has to follow them.   
- E.g. Lab network access is only available between 9pm and 5am

**File system security**   
- Accessing information is determined through an Access control list that list permissions
- Encryption can be built in to the OS to further secure files out of access

**Conditional access** - Allows us to set certain conditions such as device, location, etc. Then use these conditions to control access such as allow/block, require MFA, provide limited access, etc.    

**Privileged access management (PAM)** - Managing superuser access such as admin and root accounts. Store these accounts in a digital vault. PAM advantages.   
- Centralized password management
- Enables automation
- Manage access for each user
- Extensive tracking and auditing