# Given a scenario, implement public key infrastructure

## Public Key Infrastructure
**Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)**  
- Policies, procedures, hardware, software, people of managing, creating, and storing digital certificates. This is a big endeavor
- A lot of this has to do with creating certificates and associating them with people or devices

**Key management lifecycle**     
- Key generation 
- Certificate generation - allocate a key to a user
- Distribution - make the key available to the user
- Storage - securely store 
- Revocation
- Expiration

**Digital certificates**     
- Commonly a public key combined with a digital signature
- The foundation for a PKI is trusting the certificate 
- They can be created using services built into the OS

**Commercial certificate authorities**    
- Built-in to your browser with a list of web site certificates
- **Certificate signing request (CSR)** - Providing a public key to a certificate authority to sign. This is needed when establishing a web server.

**Private certificate authorities**   
- You are the CA. This is built in-house so that your devices must trust the internal CA.
- This is needed for medium-to-large organizations
- Implement using Windows Certificate Services or OpenCA

**PKI trust relationships** - Single CA or Hierarchical relationship where root, **intermediate**, and leaf CAs all manage the load of managing certificates and adding redundancy.   

**Registration authority (RA)** - Goes through the process of identifying the requester of the certificate. This is based on trust between the RA and requester. The RA is also responsible revocations, renewals, and re-key request.   

**Common Name (CN)** - This is the FQDN (fully qualified domain name) for the certificate. This can active the common name invalid error in the domain name and CN don't match.   

**Subject alternative name (SAN)** - This an additional host name for the cert, common for web servers. Such as www added on.   

**Expiration** - Maximum expiration time of 13 months to limit exposure.    

**Key revocation**    
- **Certificate Revocation List (CRL)** - File containing certificates that have been revoked.   
- The vulnerability **Heartbleed** is a prime example of why we need trusted certificates

**OCSP (Online Certificate Status Protocol)** - Built-in to the browser that can perform a single check for one certificate to see if it was revoked. Your browser usually send the message to an OCSP responder managed by a CA.    


## Certificates
**Web server SSL certificates**   
- **Domain validation certificate (DV)** - Means the owner has control over the domain you're connecting to.
- **Extended validation certificate (EV)** - DV, but additional checks are made to verify the owner's identity. This cost a little extra.

- **Subject Alternative Name (SAN)** - An extension to an X.509 certificate that allows a certificate to support many different domains.
- **Wildcard domain** - a * that means exactly what it means in bash so that a SAN can cover more domains.

**Code signing certificate** - Developers sign a piece of software so that when we run the software, our OS examines and checks the signature left by the developer to validate it has not been changed.   

**Root certificate** or root CA - Everything start with this certificate and sign everything downstream. This has to remain same, take all security precautions.   

**Self-signed certificates** - These are self-signed and internal certificates for inside an organization for devices.    

**Machine and computer certificates** - These certificates are put on devices to establish trust between the network and device.    

**Email certificates** - Uses public key cryptography for email. We can sign our emails with digital signatures using our private key or email certificate. This provides integrity.    

**User certificates** - Certificates associated with a user. Often integrated into smart cards, this provides authentication.    


## Certificate Formats
**X.509** is the standard for digital certificates. However there are many file formats for certificates.   

- **DER (Distinguished Encoding Rules)** - Format designed to transfer syntax for data structures, perfect for X.509 certificates. 
	- It is a binary format (not human-readable)
	- Common format for many applications, mainly Java
- **PEM (Privacy-Enhanced Mail)** - Common format that Base64-encodes DER certificates to make them readable and transferable through email in ASCII format.   

- **PKCS #12 or P12** - Public Key Cryptography Standards #12. Developed by the RSA.
	- Container format for many certificates in a single `.p12` or `.pfx` file.
	- Also can be password protected.
- PKCS 12 was extended from Microsoft's `.pfx` format (personal information exchange). These standards are often referenced interchangeably. 

- **CER (Certificate)** - Mainly used in Windows for managing certificates. Includes DER or PEM format. 
	- Usually contains a public key
	- Common format for Windows certificates (has a `.cer` extension)
- **PKCS #7 or P7B** - Stored in ASCII as a `.p7b` file to contain certificates and chain certificates. Not private keys. Has  support for Windows, Java Tomcat, and others.


## Certificate Concepts
**Online and offline CAs**    
- A compromised CA is very bad
- To limit exposure we use offline and online CAs
- Store the root CA offline, safely

**OCSP stapling** - Using Online Certificate Status Protocol to check if the certificate is revoked or not.  
- OCSP status is stored on the certificate holder's server and we "staple" into the SSL/TLS handshake.
- Since the status is signed by the CA, we don't have to the root CA to get the okay.

**Pinning** - Putting the expected certificate into an application so that it when it connects to the server it can compare them.   
- If the certificates don't match the server can shutdown the application

**PKI trust relationships** - This covers both a single CA and hierarchical CA structures. But also mesh.    
- Mesh - Cross-certifying CAs between all servers. This doesn't scale well.
- Web-of-trust - PKI trust relationship where each person signs the certificates of people they know.
- Mutual Authentication - Server and client both authenticate each other.

**Key escrow** - Where a 3rd party holds onto your decryption keys.     
- Trust your 3rd party
- Have careful and clear procedures, processes, and control conditions

**Certificate chaining** - The chain of trust, a list of all certificates between the server and root CA.   
- **Intermediate/chain certificate** - Any certificate between the SSL and root certificate. 

