# Explain the importance of policies to organizational security
## Personnel Security
**AUP (Acceptable Use Policy)** - detailed documentation that covers internet use, phone and computer use, etc. This is used by companies to limit legal liability.     

**Job rotation** - Have people rotate through jobs to control time in a positions to limit likeliness of insider threat. Mandatory vacations can also be used.     

**Separation of duties** - Split knowledge where two people know each half of details, such as a safe combination. Dual control is where two people must be present to do something, like a safe with two keys.     

**Clean desk policy** - You must have a clean desk before leaving to limit sensitive data exposure.   

**Least privilege** - Rights and permissions should be set to the bare minimum of what they need.    

**Background check** - Pre-employment screening to verify applicant claims. Can also include criminal history, etc. If an applicant is denied employment because of the contents of their bg check it is an **adverse action**.     

**NDA (Non-disclosure agreement)** - Confidentiality agreement / Legal contract     

**Social media analysis** - Gathering data from social media about a person.    

**On-boarding** - Documents must be signed, accounts created, and hardware given.   
**Off-boarding** - What happens to the hardware and data. Account is disabled.      

**User training** - Gamification or CTFs, phishing simulations, and CBT (Computer based training).     

**Role-based security awareness training** - Specialized training for employees and maybe third=parties.    


## Third-party Risk Management
**Vendors** - Companies that handle, supply chain, payroll, travel, software development. There is always risk when sharing data with a vendor.    

**Supply chain** - Performing supply chain assessments include a lot. Pay attention in the security in supply chain.       

**Business partners** - The people who use your data or products are much closer to the data, this makes them a security concern. This also involves communication  over a trusted connection. Partner risk management should be included.    

**Service Level Agreement (SLA)** - Minimum terms for services provided, uptime, response time, etc. This is an official contract.    

**Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)** - Both sides agree on the contents. This is a more informal SLA.     

**Measurement System Analysis (MSA)** - Provides a way to assess the quality of the process used in their measurement systems.     

**Business Partnership Agreement (BPA)** - Going into business together contract.     

**Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)** - Protects confidential information. Usually formal contracts that require a signature.    

**End of life (EOL)** - The end of support or sale of a product. Know this for lack of security patches can be bad.     


## Managing Data
**Data governance** - Rules, processes, and accountability associated with an orgs data.     

**Data steward** - Manages the governance process. Label sensitivity labels.    
**Data classification**     
- Personal 
- Public
- Restricted
- Confidential
- Secret
- Top Secret

**Data retention** - Keeping old versions of files (version control) to increase data loss redundancy. Often legal requirements for data retention.    


## Credential Policies
- Passwords must be server side
- Communication of the login over the network must be encrypted for confidentiality
- Users only use user accounts
- Watch permissions
- Third-party accounts also need to be maintained
- Add layers of security such as **2FA** or **MFA**

**Device accounts**    
- Device certificates
- MDM (Mobile Device Manager)
- Require lock screens, disable cameras, etc.
- Geo-fencing
- Biometrics

**Admin/root accounts** - Super user account that has complete access to the system. These need to be highly secure with MFA and strong passwords.    


## Organizational Policies
**Change management** - Making changes always includes risk. Have clear fallback procedures, installation process, amoung other 

**Change control** - A formal process for managing change to avoid downtime, confusion, and mistakes.    

**Asset management** - Identify and track computing assets.   
- Know who, what, and where
- Provide management of hardware and software
- Track licenses as well
- Verify all devices are up to date


