# Summarize risk management processes and concepts

## Types
**External threats** - Outside the company     
**Internal threats** - Employees and partners     
**Legacy systems** - Outdated, and older, vulnerable technology     
**Multi-party risk** - Breaches involving multiple parties      
**IP theft** - Theft of ideas, inventions, etc. Maybe human error, hacking, etc. Identify and protect IP.       
**Software compliance/licensing** - Follow correct licensing and legal compliance

**Risk management strategies**     
- **Acceptance** - Accepting the risk 
- **Risk-avoidance** - Stop participating in risky activity
- **Transference** - Buy cyber insurance
- **Mitigation** - Decrease the risk level


## Risk Analysis
**Risk register** - Used to identify any large risk associated with a project at every step.    
**Risk matrix / heat map** - I visualization of a risk assessment.   
- Uses likelihood and consequence

**Inherent risk** - Impact + likelihood. Risk that exist in the absence of controls.   
**Residual risk** - Inherent risk + control effectiveness. This is risk that exists after controls are considered.     
**Risk appetite** - The amount of risk an org is willing to take.     

Now that you know risk, you build your cybersecurity requirements around it. This often includes a formal audit and building and maintaining security systems based on the requirements.      

**Risk awareness** - Staying up to date with knowledge of new and emerging risks. This also includes maintaining awareness.    

**Regulation that affect risk posture** - 
- HIPAA  - Privacy of patient records
- GDPR - EU data protection regulations

**Qualitative risk assessment** - Identifying significant risk factors. This can be done visually using colors on a spreadsheet with risk factors as the columns and the risks as the rows. (High, medium, low risk)      
**Quantitative risk assessment** - Often a dollar figure. This is usually 
- **Annualized Rate of Occurrence (ARO)** - rate of occurrence
- **Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)** - Monetary value of a single loss ($)
- **Annualized Loss Expectancy (ALE)** - ARO x SLE = $

**Disaster types** 
- Environment - Tornado, earthquakes
- Person-made threats - Crime, error, negligence
- Internal and external - Threats from inside and outside the organization


## Business Impact Analysis

****